---
title: "Is the customer always right?"
date: 2022-04-13T00:00:00-00:00
draft: true
categories: ["Tech", "Culture"]
tags: ["Tech", "Culture"]
---

## Hm. It’s complicated

Why does your business exist in the first place? To solve an existing problem? To deliver a product that propels us to the future? To monetize an art/craft? Depending on your answer, you may justifiably have the right to ignore your customers more than others.

I work on an internal platform team. We provide tools, infrastructure, and support to our customers. The primary reason our customers pay us is to reduce overhead from creating/running/maintaining their own infrastructure/tools.

For a platform team, is the customer always right? Probably not. Some customers believe that purchasing a service also purchases them the right to complain, berate, and make unreasonable demands.

But you can’t write off every customer’s complaint. Ignoring any/all forms of feedback is probably just hubris. So how do you strike a balance?

## Remaining steadfast in your beliefs

A customer requests a feature. Something they believe is the next generation of X. Something to reduce existing friction. Or something to reduce their operational responsibility, but effectively increase yours.

This is probably one of those moments you should turn to your mission statement and vision statement. Yeah yeah, super corny. But I believe the reason they exist in the first place is for these exact moments. When you’re at a junction or fork in the road and need to make a yes/no decision.

*Does this feature help build towards a product that you believe in?*

If the answer is yes, great! You probably have a few more questions to ask yourself. Is this something we can afford to not only build, but also to maintain? Compared to other existing issues & feature requests, how do we prioritize this?

## Tread carefully

Many requests will come in labeled as “URGENT”. Some customers may even threaten to leave the platform altogether.

Be very discerning in determining whether there’s actually any signal, or whether it’s all just noise. Don’t let any potential losses weigh too heavy on you. Stay the course. Build something you believe in!
